:title: Arrival to Japan
:date: 29-06-2013
:tags: japan

Getting out of the airport, the first sights on the bus are a river
and mountains beyond. Lush greenery is aplenty, despite the paved
highways bridges and poles.

Getting interrogated by an airport police officer upon landing was the
most pleasant experience ever, even though she did not speak
English. Other officers along the way would inquire as to the purpose
of my visit, and saying I was here to play 'Igo' was immediately
received with a smile.

Now I know the truth: when people said they have signs in English too,
they meant the no-smoking signs. And almost nobody speaks it so far. I
even purchased a bus ticket by matching Japanese symbols in less than
a minute to catch the leaving bus. That was fun.

I am exhausted from my trip. In an effort to combat the jet lag early,
I remained awake for the entire duration of the flight, making this my
twenty-fifth hour of waking. Hopefully I can sleep at a decent hour
and quickly revert to this even further forward time-zone.

Everything is so cheerful and colorful here. For example, the
fingerprint and photo system at customs had flowers and pretty lights
in the background. The toll gate signs are in bright neon green, blue
and pink.

The roads are quite clean here. The highway looks like it was painted
yesterday. I think the overtaking lane is on the right here, even on
escalators. I let out a sigh of relief as I see the highway signs show
distance in kilometers, but then again, why wouldn't they? Oh wait, we
are driving on the left side. Cars drive on the left here.

----------

Now the city, and the seaside factories. Lots of them. But they look
so clean and well kept. There is no sign of pollution although there
are smokestacks. Does it just rain a lot or something? Perhaps I have
gotten too used to Bahrains dust and Philadelphias rust.

The city itself looks dense, buildings tightly packed. Not many tall
buildings though, just a lot of short ones. We might not have reached
Osaka proper yet.

----------

I reach the room a couple of hours later, it is smaller than I
expected, and David is clearly not pleased. However, everything else
is fine, and the bed is comfortable. I make sure of this by
immediately collapsing on it. Soon I will fall asleep.

I play around with the TV to see if anything interesting is on. Japanese
TV is really weird.

.. image:: /static/images/DSC_0127.jpg

Our double room at the U-Community Hotel.
