:title: Kyoto Trip
:date: 04-07-2013
:tags: japan
:music: /static/music_files/alone_in_kyoto.mp3
:music_title: Air - Alone in Kyoto

Departure
=========

We meet up at the TTS Center at 8:20am to leave for Kyoto. Only
fourteen have decided to make this trip, anyone else is still in
bed. Our tour guide, Hyodo, is a funny short man with a hacking cough. He's
very good with money and counting; Yen still confuse me with all their
thousands.

Hyodo is a bright fun spirit, like many of the people I've
interacted with here so far, he takes the extra effort to show us cool
things, like the front car of the train with the driver and 'cockpit
view'. He's actively talking despite his poor English, and it's a
great time. Although I thought I might be jealous of those staying
behind and playing Go, especially since they would be going back to
the Kiin today, I'm glad now that I've properly met our tour guide;
this isn't going to be your ordinary boring tour with the bland tour
guide spewing facts all the time.

Train Conversations
-------------------

The long, thirty minute ride to Kyoto goes by fast as a group of us
share stories and Go jokes. I meet the Australian guy, Jackson, and
his girlfriend Leaves. We switch trains for the third time, and after
being through so many you notice the difference between rail
companies. This now fancier car is touting an English PA and comfier
seating, although there is no room to sit for us right now. Watch out,
you're riding in the “Elegant Saloon 8000.” No, seriously, it says so
on the car.

We meet Hyodo's fellow tour guides at the arriving station in Kyoto, Miko, Yuki, Sugita, and Tatsuda.

.. image:: /static/images/DSC_0300.jpg

Our tour guide, Hyodo, and his friend Miko Miyama.

A Thousand Buddhas
==================

We have to take off our shoes before entering the Sanjyusangen-do
temple. Unfortunately, photography is prohibited. A musky incense
floats the through the thousand statues as we walk by. Every statue
has a different face; it's incredible how hard you try to disprove
this. Every single statue has some thirty hands holding various
divinity items. It's incredible, in total that's 30,000 hands. The
giant Buddha statue sits in the middle of the five hundred smaller
ones on each side. It must be fifteen meters tall. Look it up, this place
is absurd, and considered a national treasure of Japan.

After observing one thousand statues, we put our number theory to good
use and join in fitting a thousand people into a local bus. It's
filled with elderly, schoolchildren, and tourists. 

We arrive at the Kyoto handicraft center, which is filled with
traditional Japanese crafts; it's time to buy souvenirs. Pouring
outside, we scramble under umbrellas to the restaurant where we will
eat lunch. They have crazy contraptions that wrap your umbrellas in
plastic when you enter.

Go Temple
=========

We visit the Honinbo temple, named Jyakkouji temple, where Go was
officially founded in Japan four hundred years ago. The temple is
watched over by the descendants of Sansa Honinbo, the originator of
Go's formal rules and culture in Japan. He began the first official Go
society of Japan. A Buddhist monk watches over the temple, with his
family living nearby. The daughter is adorable and yells “Okay!” with
her arms forming a circle every time we take a group photo.

.. image:: /static/images/DSC_0335.jpg

The room of official Honinbo matches, last played in 2012.

This temple is definitely the greatest site for us in Kyoto. We spend
a good amount of time exploring the old Go equipment, and I make a
special request to get my hands on Sansa's comical Tanka (satirical
poems) on the description of Go. Unfortunately, they are in
Japanese. Miko San is kind enough to translate them for us a few days
later as part of a memories booklet. I think I will try to get them
professionally translated, to preserve the satire within. Some
of my favorite are:

  Overstrategizing often leads to trivial and unwise moves.
  
  -- 2/11, Sansa

| 

  It is important to play with players weaker than you.
  It's no good to think them unimportant.
  
  -- 4/11, Sansa

.. image:: /static/images/DSC_0327.jpg

Four hundred year-old Go equipment, and Sansa's original poems.

Our final historic stop is Rokuon-ji Temple, a beautiful golden
landmark that rests on a lake. It looks really cool and I got some
great shots despite the rain and high overcast.

.. image:: /static/images/DSC_0350.jpg

Rokuon-ji Temple on a rainy day.

Kyoto Station
=============

Getting around Kyoto isn't as easy as Osaka. We've ridden busses
everywhere to get around, and are now riding another one for twenty
stops to get back to the station we need to get home. 

Kyoto station is huge, and tall. The giant done is some seven stories
tall, but the set of twelve escalators takes you even higher, where a
view of Kyoto is breathtaking. Sure, every large station in Japan
houses a shopping mall or two, but Kyoto station is adding to the
combination by being both an architectural masterpiece as well as an
art museum. There are a lot more tourists here than in Osaka, you can
tell they're not Japanese; couples, groups of friends, tour groups.

.. image:: /static/images/DSC_0381.jpg

Breathtakingly large Kyoto station, with the twelve sets of rainbow stairs.

Shinkansen
----------

Our tour guides were great, and we take a picture with Yuki and
Tatsuda before leaving. We say goodbye, and proceed towards the
Shinkansen boarding track. As I watch other Shinkansen trains ride in,
their bullet noses held high with the pride of Japanese technology, I
envy those sitting inside against our terribly outdated trains in the
US. Kids and adults alike are moving in and out of trains, red-skirted
girls with pink rolling luggage listening to ipods, and I wonder what
it's like living a life here where bullet trains are nothing but
ordinary. Our train arrives and I get inside, it looks more like a
plane in here, if planes had such spacious legroom. So much so that I
wish I had a window seat.

.. image:: /static/images/DSC_0382.jpg

From left; Tatsuda, me, Yuki

We are now officially riding the fastest train in the world. It's a
little slow to get out of the city, but within minutes it's picking up
speed smoothly. We're going at least 200 km/h already. Our tour guide
comes by handing out green tea flavored ice cream, as if to enjoy the
show; this is getting absurd. In just fourteen short minutes, we've
crossed back to Osaka, a journey that took us over an hour by regular
train this morning. 

Train Stations
--------------

We stumble across a group of Brisbane school kids
going around on a vacation trip and talk to their teacher. Our guide
gives the female teacher the last remaining ice cream as a gift. “Eat
now,” he says, worried it will melt.

On our way back, switching to the local train station, we somehow
collide with the other Go camp members who didn't join us to
Kyoto, opting instead to visit the Osaka branch of the Nihon Kiin and
play Go. The conversations now veer back towards Go, arguing about ranking
algorithms, and even discussing various sci-fi TV shows sparked by the
“Serenity” tee-shirt Michael is wearing.

We return to the TTS center to find Kim-Kun reviewing a Lee Sedol game
(pronounced Ee Sedol). Even though its just the two of us, members
slowly march in over the next twenty minutes, and soon there are ten
of us sitting around the Go board.
