:title: Go Camp Day 7
:date: 09-07-2013
:tags: japan, go camp

League Game
===========

Today I play against Stephan, the German doctor who works in clinical
trials; I've shared good conversation with him in the past. We both
have a passion for photography, him a lot more so as he is using a
professional grade Nikon camera. I won him by ten points, in a very
sophisticated looking game.

Li Ting reviews the game for us, pointing out many early mistakes,
thus reducing my pride in winning. Deeper in, she is very proud that I
actually took the time to count the score before making a big decision
of invasion versus reduction, whereby I sacrificed a key stone for a
simple reduction play, since I figured with the Komi I was ahead by
three points. As usual, I learned a lot from her advice.

.. image:: http://gokifu.com/g/1fan.gif

My game against Stephan; http://gokifu.com/s/1fan

Lectures
========

We have a new pro give us a lecture, he is very practical in his
advice; I like this. Following this we have the usual game reviews and
teaching games, and we sit around Maeda sensei reviews Steve's game,
he's the California go tournament organizer who is also attending.

Maedas Endgame
--------------

Following yesterday's lecture in crosscuts, Maeda sensei demonstrates
how in a contact fight, the stones that are weakest are those nearest
to friendly stones. The reason is that friendly nearby stones provide
a liability for you, and your enemy can use attachments against them
to strengthen his local position. One way or another, he will take
advantage of your stones. So in a crosscut, always defend stones
closest to friendly stones, as they are actually the weaker ones.

He continues with an endgame lecture, demonstrating that a simple
second line capture can amount to almost fourteen points. In fact, the
second line Kiema is more than twenty points. So, if your opponent
captures your five or six stones in exchange for an endgame second
line defense, thank him and "die with a smile on your face."

The Go Bar
==========

It's 7pm and we make our way to the Go bar. Kim joins us only for the
journey, getting off at an earlier stop to go home and rest before his
tournament game tomorrow. We wish him luck, and say goodbye as we will
be in Hiroshima for the next two days.

Tenma is the stop with the arcade and Go bar. We get off and are
inside something out of a Star Wars film, or a final fantasy game. The
street sky is so covered in signs and lights you can't see it
anymore. Shops are everywhere around you, packed tightly together and
sporting hanging lanterns, neon signs, and Japanese writing on hanging
flags. I wish I had pictures but unfortunately did not bring my camera along.

The Go bar sits indiscriminantly between a liquor store and Ramen
shop. It is a great time, especially since two of the girls who
frequently join us at the camp have decided to come too. We play a
game of pair go, a.k.a. Rengo, with them and it takes all night, but
is a great ice breaker. I finally learn their names, Akari and
Akane. Their friend Masayuki also arrives later after his part time
job shift is over. I finally get a chance to enjoy a Japanese single
malt at the bar and it is very good. 

Random
======

Due to lack of pictures on this post, I've added a few random ones here to
try and make up for that. 

.. image:: /static/images/IMG_1534.jpg

This is what breakfast at my hotel looks like. It's pretty awesome.

.. image:: /static/images/DSC_0259.jpg

This is what a decent lunch meal looks like, it was at City Hall cafeteria.

.. image:: /static/images/DSC_0332.jpg

This is a miniature Go board and stones, smaller than my palm.


