:title: Go Camp Day 1
:date: 01-07-2013
:tags: japan

The Go Camp Officially Begins
=============================

.. image:: /static/images/DSC_0179.jpg

Left, Ryo Maeda, John.

Ryo Maeda 6P opens the camp, with John translating for him. He
welcomes all the players, notes how there are players from many
countries around, and distills the rules of the camp. One interesting
rule is how we aren't allowed to eat within the camp grounds. Why, you
ask? Well, the area we are playing in is actually a Sumo wrestling
ring, used by professionals to train for Sumo contests. We are not
allowed to eat because it preserves the sanctity of the Sumo
arena. I'll need to look up later why this is so.

We walk over to the S-Terrace, the cafeteria where we will be getting
our lunch from now on. Ryo Maeda will be showing us the ways of
cafeteria etiquette here. On the way I have the opportunity to speak
with one of the other camp attendees.

His name is Gary, from Houston, TX. His father was in the US Air Force
and he was here for 20 months back when he was 11 years old. Now,
almost 50 years later, he's back to visit. He had only recently
started playing Go, but is more interested in visiting Japan again and
using this camp as an excuse. He's only around 20k.

I originally caught his attention by mentioning to David how the ages
of camp members is interesting to note, mostly a young crowd, and
those that are not are gray-haired and balding. Not many in between,
perhaps just a couple out of some thirty or more members. An
interesting dichotomy to ponder; what life sacrifices one must make to
spend a month here, and the implications on the lives they lead back
home. Gary turned when we mentioned the “old guys,” and we conversed
about the appropriate life-sacrifices were needed to dedicate a month
in Japan on what can only be described as a vacation. Apparently, he
had to bribe his wife with chocolate. Her recent interest in Sumo
wrestling was also a factor, he is planning on watching a big Sumo
fight on the 17th somewhere nearby. I am going to try to make it to
this, it sounds like fun.

They show us the food, and how lines are divided up into what kind of
dish you want to get; noodle, rice, soup, or curry. “My Sanctuary” of
Kingdom Hearts 2 is playing on the speakers. This is an incredible
musical moment that induces flashbacks of a young sixteen year-old
playing PlayStation in his old living room. It reminds me of why I was
so curious to visit Japan.

.. image:: /static/images/DSC_0180.jpg

The S-Terrace cafeteria with camp players walking through.

Watching local students go about their day at school provides a small
degree of surrealism that makes me reminisce of my summer school days
at Penn.

We walk back to the Sumo arena to begin our first league
game. Spending some time around the other members now, I have a faint
idea about their composition. There are quite a few French and German
attendees.

League Game 1
=============

I play against an American from Vermont, I think his name is John, but
I'm not sure anymore. His rating is a 6k, and since I'm still a 7k
because my rank was provided some months ago, I play black and he gets
no Komi. If he is ranked on KGS as 6k, then this game is mine; I play
with confidence.

I ended up beating him, but only because he was kind enough to let me
take a move back. In the endgame, I hurriedly played a self-atari at
which he promptly exclaimed, “you don't want to do that.” I
appreciated his attitude, “I don't want to win like that,” he said.

.. image:: http://gokifu.com/g/1enq.gif

My first league game. For the full SGF, http://gokifu.com/s/1enq.

Play Diagonally
===============

Next, we attend a lecture by a famous 9P whose name I do not know, but
I have his autograph on my fan! I'll find out later. He explains how
when you are under pressure, you should always be playing diagonal
moves. He shows us a lot of Sabaki plays, a concept that is difficult
to understand. This provided some clarity,
http://senseis.xmp.net/?Sabaki.

.. image:: /static/images/DSC_0195.jpg

John helping the 9P sensei translate.

Teaching Games
==============

Every day at the Go camp, the professional Go players play teaching
games against four camp attendees simultaneously. These are called
teaching games because the pros are not out to get you, they are
trying to play in a way that allows you to learn more from the
game. After the game is over, they review it with you, focusing on the
most impactful situations and moves.

.. image:: /static/images/DSC_0198.jpg

Yasuhiro Nakano 9P playing four teaching games.

I did quite well against Li Ting until I decided I would kill her
group, David called this my violent tendencies. It ended in Seki, but
because my surrounding group had no eyes, she actually came around and
killed me instead. It was quite embarrassing. She proceeded to give me
an in-depth life and death lesson with bent shapes in the corner,
something she claimed was very important to know.

.. image:: http://gokifu.com/g/1epf.gif

My teaching game against Li Ting 1P. For the full SGF, http://gokifu.com/s/1epf.

Listening to Ting sensei speak Chinese with another player during
their review, and being surrounded with Japanese since my time here;
it's amazing how different they sound now.

Endgame Lecture with Ryo Maeda
------------------------------

Maeda sensei describes how the middle game is the most
important part of the game. The second most important part is the
endgame right after the middle game, or if you wish, the very
beginning of the endgame. “Although many people like to study the
opening, it doesn't really make much difference.” He explains how in
the endgame, playing a move that is Sente for either player is worth
double. It is easy to misjudge the value of these moves against those
that capture or protect large groups of stones.

Welcome Pa'aty
==============

The organizers have prepared a welcome party for us, which they aptly
call “welcome pa'aty” in Japanese. Love it. By this point, I have a
good grasp of the different players here, having introduced myself to
many of them. There are players from Russia, Germany, France, USA
(Vermont, Texas, California, NJ) Canada, Korea, Japan, and
China. I'm sure there are more I'm missing, but I'm told there are 11
countries being represented here today.

We sit down for dinner at the restaurant, and Ryo Maeda is kind enough
to buy us a large bottle of wine. This gets the mood going. Sitting
down are two non-camp members. The first is a Japanese guy who owns a
Go Salon in Kyoto. His name is Junji, and he is here for the party,
although his decision to mingle with English-only speakers is dubious
as his English is not so great. Still, I am glad we got to meet
someone new, and owner of a Go salon to boot!

The second is the adorable Shion, who we had only just met. She had
been asked by Ryo Maeda to attend as translator today, as many of the
professional Go players were attending this party to mingle, and most
of them do not speak any English. The others sitting down are Dan from
NJ, a guy from Germany who is quite talkative, and also a software
developer, David from Penn, and myself.

.. image:: /static/images/DSC_0204.jpg

Our party table, from the left: Shion, German-guy, David, Me, Dan, Junji.

Junji informs us there's a Go bar in town, Estrela,
near Tenma station. We should use the Loop Line from Tsuruhashi
station to get there. Speaking to Ting Li later, she is on board for
us to visit the Go bar, where you can drink, smoke, and play Go. This
needs to exist back home.

Ting Li mentions how my being the strongest Go player in my country,
hah, means I can take part in international Go championships and get
an all-expense paid trip too. This sounds promising, if only I was
living at home and had the time to start an official Go society. I
will tell my Go-playing friends back in Bahrain about this.

