:title: Go Camp Day 6
:date: 08-07-2013
:tags: japan

Today's Announcements
=====================

I'm playing John today, as we have an odd number of students.
Maeda Sensei announces the scores of the past two days' friendlies, and we
won by fair margins on both days.
A lost and found box is created for the accumulating lost items.
Tomorrow we plan to go to a Go cafe, at 7pm.

Playing a High Dan
==================

The game with John is really intense. All I am worried about is
keeping the advantage and not losing any groups, but he is playing
very aggressive moves that leave me with little choice but to create
cutting groups. Eventually, a severe blunder causes him to be at a
terrible disadvantage, and the confidence from this allows me to
continue thwarting his overplay moves.

Later, I join Li Ting and David as they review his game.

.. image:: http://gokifu.com/g/1f86.gif

My Game against John 3D, http://gokifu.com/s/1f86

Lunch Box Story
===============

Lunch alone today, reviewing the game I suppose I missed the bus. Not
too terrible though, this is probably the first solo lunch run since I
got here. In any case, I take the opportunity to get take out from the
bento shop I had been eyeing for a while.

'Captain' Hyodo, our tour guide, is hard at work preparing even more
sightseeing trips. Apart from Wednesday's Hiroshima trip, which I am
greatly looking forward to, there are now two more for next week: a
visit to the Osaka aquarium as well as a Kanto trip with historic
sites. I might opt out of the aquarium trip since it is a bit pricey
and I'd honestly rather play Go than sacrifice two days of it in a
row.

Maeda sensei begins the lectures on the previous endgame homework, and
accidentally begins solving tomorrows homework instead! A humorous
moment. He proceeds to the appropriate homework problem, and we have
eight students that got it right, including me! Normally, only three
prizes are awarded, but Maeda sensei's mother has brought by a lot of
handicraft items today, so everybody gets a prize.

Maeda sensei gives another lecture, concerning crosscuts and Ataris on
the third lines. “Never Atari in a crosscut unless you can read the
capture of the stone you Atari.” He reveals four basic crosscut shapes
that ensure Atari death. Seeing this blows my mind. It's been a while since
that has happened in Go.

.. image:: /static/images/DSC_0464.jpg

Analyzing a move during a professional game review

A Pro Debate
============

I stumble across Li Ting giving a basic life and death shape lesson to
Gary, the same one she gave to me. She tests me, and I get the ones
she had shown me before correct right away. So, she decides to
challenge me with more shapes. John joins and we start exploring more
shapes. Minutes later it has turned into a discussion of the J-group
involving Li Ting, Chihiro-Sensei and nine camp members. Chihiro
Sensei is a 1P female who has joined us today. She's very nice and was
playing teaching games with the camp members over the afternoon.

This J-group discussion lasts for a while as Li and Chihiro giggle
away at our inability to solve as well as their inability to remember
why certain moves are bad, things they had learned over twenty years
ago. Next Kim joins the fray, and now we are witnessing a deep
discussion with three professional go players filled with puns and
jokes. It turns into a riot, and the consensus by Kim is that Go
literature is bad for your brain.

.. image:: /static/images/DSC_0456.jpg

Li Sensei, Chihiro Sensei, and Kim Sensei arguing about the J-group

Kim's Simuls
============

The dans want to play Kim since he's here. I jump in, and now Kim's
playing six simultaneous games, yet again. I lose miserably despite my
right stone handicap. I resigned near the end of the middle game,
unable to bear witness to the atrocities of my own horrible play.

Late at night, after a couple more games of go and a lesson on life in
the corner by Jaxon, we sit around the go board with Li Sensei and Kim
sensei and talk about their upcoming professional games. It's really
fascinating how this is actually their full time job, their
profession. We talk about the expected attire and if we can get them
to broadcast their matches for us if we attend. 
