:title: Kansaii Ki In
:date: 03-07-2013
:tags: japan

Today we go to the professional Go playing grounds, the Kansai Kiin,
pronounced Kan-Sai Kee-Inn. After a friendly morning game with David,
we leave with the whole group on the train. To get there we take the
Kintetsu Line from Kawachikosaka to Kintetsu Nippombashi, then go
north to Kitahama.

I share a conversation about anime, and "Cowboy Bebop", with an old
gentleman named Joel from our club on the subway. I've been having a
lot of these 'only in Japan' moments, and I'm loving it. We talk about
the show and it's music, and he tells me about its composer, Yoko
Kanno. His youthful spirit is invigorating and uplifting. He yells
across the train to another old man asking questions about what other
shows she's composed for. Escaflowne and Last Exile apparently, both
of which come highly recommended.

The train stations here are littered with fresh bakery stores,
reminiscent of the patisseries that fill the Paris subway stations.

A different world
=================

They take us to the higher floors, where the professionals are playing
ranked games. We silently observe them exchange moves on the Go
board. The only sounds that can be heard are the occasional dipping
hand into the Go bowl, followed by the smack of the stones onto the
board. Good quality boards like these provide a nice low pitch but
high volume thud, which is pleasing to hear. 

.. image:: /static/images/DSC_0242.jpg

The professional Go players pondering their next moves.

Back downstairs, we wait for the other groups to finish by playing
games on the thick boards with great stones. In the back, you can
watch the pro games on TVs and enjoy a cigarette or coffee.

A 7 Dan pro comes along to share something special, a handkerchief
with nine notoriously difficult life and death problems, known as
Tsumego, created by the now 10 Dan title holder. If we can solve just
one correctly, we can buy the handkerchief for half off. Together, the
group manages to solve one, and they let any of us buy it for half
price, incurring a surge of purchases.

Lunch at City Hall
==================

Now it's time for lunch, and Li Sensei has to drag most if the players
out of the salon and pry their hands off of the clamshell stones. We
get lunch at the city hall cafeteria. Buying your meal is exactly the
same as buying a subway ticket: you pick the meal you want, then buy a
ticket for that amount and go to the appropriate vendor of that
particular meal. It's quite efficient.

Sitting down with an old man from New Hampshire and David, we talk
about the recent developments in the states concerning Mon
Santo. Understanding the implications more clearly, since David had a
firm understanding of molecular biology from his biophysics doctorate,
it makes me feel like we've actually leaped into the future. Patents
on plants, selling seeds that don't yield any seeds of their own so
farmers are forced to buy new ones each year, making plants resistant
to a certain pesticide thus ensuring you neighbors using it will kill
your competitors' seeds. This is too dark to think about.

Back at the Ki In
=================

I speak with Stephan, an aged German doctor who works with
pharmacology clinical trials. We share our passion for Go and
technology, specifically computers, as well as how we both need Go to
keep our heads satiated since we love to think. I'm glad I'm not the
only one.

Our tour guide for the Kyoto trip tomorrow explains the schedule in
broken English. He has a great spirit despite this, and the agenda has
many of us very excited. The salon of the Kiin downstairs is filled
with activity, both our camps' players and local regulars. It's a
beautiful sight to see so many interested in the game of Go.

The group splits up into those staying to play Go, and those wanting
to visit Osaka castle with a local friend of Maeda sensei. I can hear
my mothers spirit exclaiming how prudent it is to visit the castle, us
being here and all; "you can play Go anytime you want!" She'd
exclaim. But, like me, most of the younger crowd has opted to stay and
play Go or watch the professionals play. Sorry mom, I guess I'm not
that crazy about sightseeing. Anyway, I take reprise in knowing
tomorrow's Kyoto trip will provide a heavy dose of tourism, and
anyway, I'm here to play Go.

Afternoon Go
============

The high Dan players of the group play simuls against Kim sensei. This
goes on all day and night.

More locals are walking in. Almost all the Go boards are occupied
now. I play a few games with a local old man, he angrily places the
stones down when he starts to lose his advantage. He's rated 3k and I
have to give him four stones for a fair game. This shows that the
Japanese rating system is inflated relative to the US. We played five
games in total and he's a great laugh, even though I don't understand
a word he says; a lot can be said through the stones. The others are
also playing locals, it's a great day for the Kansai Go salon. The guy
I play tells me I could be a 3 dan amatuer in Japan due to my constant
success. I scoff and thank him for the complement.

.. image:: /static/images/DSC_0274.jpg

A bustling Go salon.

Evening Activities
==================

I have dinner with a German who spent his first 41 years of life
behind the Iron Curtain. He has interesting things to share, and this
makes for an interesting dinner conversation.

The guys drag back Kim sensei, a 3P from the Kiin, to the TTS center
just to hang out. He speaks very little English, and the rest of us
even less Japanese. I'm surprised how good of a time they are having
despite this. They must have been laughing and hanging for two hours
already. They show me something interesting about Nakano 9P, one of
our pro teachers. It's a blunder he made in a professional game way
back, he is now my favorite pro.

Kim now plays five simul games, with me included. I take seven stones;
let's see how long I last against this 3 Dan pro. During the game,
Chris comes by chasing a mosquito only to be thwarted by Sathya. "I
hope it bites you!" he cries.

.. image:: /static/images/DSC_0279.jpg

Kim 3P before his 5 simultaneous games.

A fatal mistake costs me a whole group, and I lose the game by a fair
margin. Kim is nice enough to review it with me afterwards, leaving
his sixth opponent, a Japanese girl I haven't met yet, patiently
waiting. When we're done, its 11:15pm. Tired, I return to my room to
get some rest for tomorrow's trip. Many players are still hanging out
at the camp, but they won't be going to Kyoto tomorrow.

.. image:: http://gokifu.com/g/1et4.gif

My game against Kim 3P.
