:title: Trip to Hiroshima Part 2
:date: 11-07-2013
:tags: japan, go camp

After getting breakfast at the 7/11, our first stop this morning is
the Hiroshima peace memorial museum. The music inside is quite
melancholic, but appropriately so. It begins with a context
explanation of Japan's involvement in war, and how the atomic bomb
came to be, and be dropped on Hiroshima. Following are samples of
rubble, photographs, and drawings of the physical destruction of the
bomb. Further along are the personal accounts of survivors, and
stories of those, who even tens of years later, suffered tremendously
due to radiation exposure even if miles away from the hypocenter. Now,
at that very place is the Hiroshima peace memorial, marking the city
as an effort to end war and especially the construction of nuclear
weapons. Fate, not without a sense of irony, has turned this city with
her hundred or more years of military past into a marker of peace. A
reminder of the stupidity of war, and the consequences of greed.

.. image:: /static/images/DSC_0579.jpg

The Hiroshima Peace Memorial with the dome behind it, last remaining
structure from before the bomb.

Miyajima
========

.. image:: /static/images/DSC_0594.jpg

The island of Miyajima

After an early lunch, we board a ferry for Miyajima, an island close
to Hiroshima famous for its temples and large water gate. At the
visitors port, a calm music is playing in front of a large courtyard
welcoming tourists. The PA buzzes about something eating your food,
and I'm confused about that until I see them. Deer. They're everywhere, the
island is full of them. Lounging under trees and near the shade of
stores. They are quite unafraid of humans and are easily petted. One
is tearing up the brochure of an English couple nearby. Another one
tries to chomp off a piece of the towel tied to my backpack strap.

.. image:: /static/images/DSC_0615.jpg

Hanging out with the deer.

We enter the shrine. It is very wide and intricate, and feels almost like an
amusement park. Otorii gate lies in every scenic view from
here. The name of this shrine is Itsukushima shrine.

.. image:: /static/images/DSC_0631.jpg

The segmented buildings of the shrine and Otorri gate in the distance.

Island Strolls
--------------

We have two hours to do whatever on the island, meeting later to
return to the mainland. After exploring the town, I take refuge under
the shade of a tree by the beach and repose, thinking slightly about
the trip so far, but mostly just quietly enjoying the sound of the
waves and tranquility of the island nature around me.

.. image:: /static/images/DSC_0670.jpg

A few of the go-campers decide to cool down at a stream.

I walk through the island's shopping streets and feel like I'm in a
market of a video game. The shades above are so reminicent of such
adventure games, it must just be traditional Japanese styles. In any
case, the streets are great fun to walk through, and some stores are
selling very pretty things. 

.. image:: /static/images/DSC_0677.jpg

The Miyajima markets

A Fortune
---------

I get a fortune from the shrine. An hour or so later I find Li Sensei
and Maeda Sensei and ask them to translate it for me. It says:

Northwest is a good direction for me. Moving will be good for me. If I
wait for some one, they will come late, but they will come. Marriage
will be very good. If I have lost something, it will be very hard to
get it back. The journey I will take is very good for me. Anything
that can be won or lost, I will win.

The applicability of this fortune to my current state of life is
suspiciously apropos. This makes me wonder what the other fortunes
say, and if all of them have something mentioning marriage, love or
movement. Some must not be nice for people or just not nice at all
since they hang them up for the wind to blow away.

.. image:: /static/images/DSC_0697.jpg

Maeda Sensei tries to read my fortune but the deer won't let him!

Back to Osaka
=============

On the bus ride home, we pass through many mountains. I didn't get a
chance to see them all as I was sleeping on the way there yesterday,
but we are passing so many we must have gone through over ten
tunnels. It's amazing to think how many holes humans have dug through
giant mountains as these.
