:title: Go Camp Day 3
:date: 05-07-2013
:tags: japan

League Games
============

The day begins with a league game against Christian, one of the
French members of the camp. We had been speaking together for a few
days already, and my French came back into play. It was nice to speak
a different language, even if it wasn't Japanese. It makes me
feel more competent that way, since I feel helpless when others can
speak Japanese. Christian and I had played a couple of games already
and they had been very close. Both times they ended in ties, with him
or me winning by just half a point. However, this time I get two
handicap stones since our rankings are off by two on the roster, this
feels very strange for me. I am doing very well until the late middle
game. I decide to kill one of his weak groups, and it would have
succeeded if not for a mistake I made, resulting in a terrible
position for Black. So terrible, in fact, that an estimate of the
score in my head caused me to resign, not to mention my loss of
spirits.

Later I watch Li Ting review a different game, and her words bring
back some spirit, as she gives great wisdom with each move review. Our
pro camp guides are great at sparking inspiration, as well as severe
intimidation when they discuss really complex variations.

.. image:: http://gokifu.com/g/1f2u.gif

League game against Christian 5k

Lunch at Family Mart
====================

The Family Mart is the convenience store just upstairs. There's one in
every three or four block radius, I've discovered. The assortment of
items available there is interesting, to say the least. But, if
anything, I'd say it's a lot more sophisticated than your usual 7/11
store. Ironically, there's a 7/11 right around the corner from the
Family Mart. They also have enough Pocky in there to feed a small
country.

.. image:: /static/images/IMG_1536.jpg

Every Pocky flavor imaginable

Go Lectures
===========

John is back and translates for Maeda, I am happy about this. The
students have agreed that if you can choose a translator, having a
British one is best.

We review the homework assignments, all have been about endgame so
far. There are two versions, for weak and strong players. Those that
get it right win a prize, or, if more than three are right they enter
a draw to win three prizes. Nobody has gotten the easy problem
correct, and only one had gotten the hard one right; how ironic.

Nakano gives another lecture, this time with a more promising
translator named Francis, an American born, American father having,
Japanese young man who lives in Osaka. Unfortunately, he stumbles at
every phrase and is unable to provide much light to Nakano's own
English shots-in-the-dark. We get by anyway, as Nakano is good at the
important English words, especially those Go terms that Francis had no
idea about in English.

A Late Appearance
=================

The Go camp is bustling today, the sumo ring housing extra characters,
and one particularly interesting oneâ€¦

Almost one year ago, I played at an AGA Go tournament in Palo Alto,
California. There, the tournament was hosted by a gray-haired man and
his daughter. At the time, it was just another meeting of people. But,
last night, the very same guy appeared at the TTS Center! It took me a
few minutes to nail it, and I kept guessing at where I might have seen
him before, until I finally got it. He's active in the AGA in
California, and came by to check out the camp, since it's the first
time Maeda 6P has decided to hold it. Maeda is a frequenter of the
American Go Congress. Anyway, it was surreal.

We Love Music
=============

Nanako prepared his Shamisen for us today. It looks beautiful. He plays a few
songs, making one or two mistakes along the way of an otherwise
flawless half hour of song. In a strange way, this instills a warm
happiness in me, almost like gratitude, that even the pros can make
mistakes, that we are not all perfect. 

.. image:: /static/images/DSC_0400.jpg

Nakano 9P playing Shamisen

A majority of the players, the young ones, group up to get dinner. We
walk into a restaurant and take it by storm. Finally I get to try some
of the local beer, it's light just the way I like it. Another plus one
for Japan. This place serves barbecued everything, no seriously. They
continue to bring out plates of BBQ sticks, each one getting devoured
a little slower than the last. Soon we are on our third drink. On the
way back we buy more beer, and now drunk Go begins. Another pro joins
us, this one an eccentric. Just because they're professionals doesn't
make them very stern, just like silly programmers are a lot of fun
despite their serious work. This guy also plays Shamisen, and sings of
drunk and fun days. This is a great jolly drinking time.

.. image:: /static/images/DSC_0413.jpg

Happy Go professional singing "Happy Drunkard" on Shamisen

Late Night Stories
------------------

We, five or six guys, hang out with Li Ting and Maeda-Sensei, who has also
had a few drinks of his own judging by his reddened face. Kim-San is with
us too, for his own entertainment since he isn't getting paid to play
today. We talk about life stuff and make jokes; the camp 'counselors'
or pros rather, are a lot more youthful and fun than you would
think. It feels like a real summer camp, and the warmth of the
figurative fire is alight in everyone.
